(light whoosh)
All right,
we'll make another rule.
We're gonna be dealing with the cart,
the orders and the cart items.
So those are three different lists
but they all have the exact same rules,
this one's pretty simple.
Let's go to the bottom here,
and we'll make a new one called,
actually just go ahead and take the canManageProducts
and duplicate it and we'll call that canOrder
and then really the only thing we're changing here
and you could probably make an abstraction,
but I prefer to be a little bit more verbose
with this kinda stuff 'cause it's so important.
(laughing)
And in this case we're just going to be checking
if the canManageCart
and then if not, then the user
should only be able to update items that they own
whether that is a cart item or whether that is an order item
or whether that is an actual order itself.
So we have canOrder, and then we'll go into
first one will be cart item and we'll go up here,
and above it we'll say access is going to be an object
and can you create a one you have to be is signed in, right?
That's all you need to be able to create a cart item.
Can you read it?
Well yeah, if it rules.canOrder.
Okay in order to update it,
it's going to be rules.canOrder
and if you wanna delete one as well
it's rules.canOrder as well.
Give that a save.
All right, next let's open up order.ts.
And we go and up here, we'll say access
again we'll have our crud
so create, should someone be able to create an order?
Yes, only if they are, is signed in
so that is imported there from Access.
Should someone be able to read an order?
Yeah that is rules.canOrder,
so they should be able to read them all
if they're an admin or they have the permission
or just read their own if they are signed in.
Update is always gonna be false.
So in that case, we just returned false
so you have to do a little arrow function
and return a Boolean false, I believe
the dev say soon you should be able to pass just false,
but for now you have to do a little arrow function
that returns false and then delete is also false.
Then we'll go to orderitem.ts and we'll add the access
and the access will be,
should they be able to create an order item?
Yes, if they are signed in.
Should they be able to update an order item?
No, because they should never be updated.
I forgot read.
(laughing)
Should they be able to read in order item?
This is where it gets kinda tricky
because if we take a look at our order item,
you wanna be able to see items that were in your order
if you own that order,
but we never associated a user with an order item.
So two options, you could just add a user to the order item
or in our case, we're just going to...
Because there's already a relationship
between the order we can say okay,
only show me if they're related orders item is,
or sorry, the related orders user is this item.
So what we'll do is we'll make a new rule
and we'll call it canManageOrderItems
and we'll go ahead and write that right now,
so we'll go back to our access.ts
and we'll go just go ahead and duplicate
your entire canOrder rule,
and we'll name that canManageOrderItems
and the only thing we need to change here is that
we're not going to filter it where the order items user is
we're going to filter it where the orders
user is equal to that.
So what we just did there is we take the order item,
we query the order and then we query the related user
and then we check their ID to make sure
that it lines up with what they have.
So we'll go back to our order item here.
So create, signed in read, only theirs
or if you have all the permissions update no,
and delete no.
All right, so that was a lot there.
You definitely need to test this stuff out.
So we'll restart the dashboard here,
and I'm gonna go into my incognito again,
I am in the editor role that we've created.
I'm gonna add a couple things to my cart.
I've just got to wait for Keystone to get up
and running, there we go.
The cart, type in my credit card,
checkout, there we go, it worked.
It allowed me to create an order.
Now the important part is if we go to our back end,
and we look at orders, as this person,
see again I'm in incognito, there's only one
but if I'm in my admin UI here,
I see all of them including the test order
that just went through, same with order items.
I should only see two here
'cause I've only ordered two things.
Whereas this person is an admin,
you can see absolutely everything.
So that's really, really important
that you get that nailed down
and honestly, this is part of what took me,
and honestly, this is part of what takes so long
when building these courses is making sure
you have the stuff nailed down.
'Cause I don't wanna just go kinda hand wavy
at the stuff and say make sure you check it.
Where you might be actually using
a center production application.
So that is our orders,
in the next one we'll get into users.
Hey, I'm just adding one more quick thing onto the end here.
I just thought like, okay
if you try to query all the orders
when you are in a totally signed out state
then you obviously don't get access to them
we took care of that.
But it does throw an error, ideally it should give us a
not like an actual internal server error,
it should give us like an access is not defined.
So what we have to do in those let's do that,
let's do the canOrder right here.
We'll just make another little function
and just say if bang is signed in and pass at the session,
so if they are not signed in
or you could even make a function called
is not signed in, return, false.
And then if we restart our process
now when I run this query, boom
you do not have access to this resource.
So it is worth taking this little once over,
and putting it at the top
of all of your, canOrder, canManageOrderItems,
and canReadProducts put them at the top of all those.
All right, catch you in the next one.